Predicting the future is notoriously difficult. Who could have imagined, in the mid 1970s, for example, that by the end of the 20th century, computers would be as common in people's homes as TV sets? In the 1970s, computers were common enough, but only in big business, government departments, and large organizations. These were the so - called mainframe machines. Mainframe computers were very large indeed, often occupying whole air - conditioned rooms, employing full - time technicians and run on specially - written software. Though these large machines still exist, many of their functions have been taken over by small powerful personal computers, commonly known as PCs.

No one could have foreseen, in those days, the rise of these machines called PCs, in which people could type in commands instead of punching holes in cards. It has become clear that the Internet - the computers - network is one of the most powerful tools for the 21st century. School children who know how to use the Internet will be at a great advantage over those who don't. There is no doubt that all this new technology is changing the way we work and offering many other ways of working. We no longer have to work at the same time, at the same place every day. People can telecommute in their pajamas if they like. A recent survey in the United States showed that 80% of all companies interviewed were either already using or planning to use the Internet in their business.

One of the greatest benefits of Internet shopping is that it is open seven days a week, 24 hours a day. Shoppers no longer have to queue up in stores during the rush - hour. This is a great convenience for those who are too busy to go to the stores during regular business hours. The Internet also makes it easier for companies to keep in touch with their customers and for people to keep in touch with each other. Companies can e - mail newsletters to their customers. And families and friends can send e - mails to each other instead of writing letters or making phone calls.

Another big advantage of the Internet is the amount of information that is available. There are sites on the Internet that list the full text of books. Some sites allow you to download entire books. Other sites offer encyclopedias, dictionaries, and other reference materials. You can also find newspapers, magazines, and other periodicals on the Internet. And, of course, there are millions of web pages with all kinds of information on them.

Predicting the future of the Internet is also difficult. Some experts believe that the Internet will continue to grow and expand. They think that more and more people will use the Internet, and that it will become even more powerful. Others believe that the Internet will become overcrowded and that its growth will slow down. There are also concerns about security. How can we be sure that our e - mail messages are private? How can we be sure that the information we download from the Internet is accurate? These are all questions that need to be answered as the Internet continues to grow.

But one thing is certain: the Internet has changed our lives, and it will continue to change our lives in the future.

##