People tend to amass possessions, sometimes without being aware of doing so. Indeed they can have a delightful surprise when they find something useful which they did not know they owned. Those who never have to change house become indiscriminate collectors of what can only be described as clutter. They leave unwanted objects in drawers, cupboards and attics for years, in the belief that they may one day need just those very things. As they grow old, people also accumulate belongings for two other reasons, lack of physical and mental energy, both of which are essential in turning out and throwing away, and sentiment. Things owned for a long time are full of associations with the past, perhaps with relatives who are dead, and so they gradually acquire a value beyond their true worth.

Some things are collected deliberately in the home in an attempt to avoid waste. Among these I would list string and brown paper, kept by thrifty people when a parcel has been opened, to save buying these two requisites. Collecting small items can easily become a mania. I know someone who always cuts sketches out from newspapers of model clothes that she would like to buy if she had the money. As she is not rich, the chances that she will ever be able to afford such purchases are remote; but she is never sufficiently strong - minded to be able to stop the practice. It is a harmless habit, but it litters up her desk to such an extent that every time she opens it, loose bits of paper fall out in every direction.

Collecting as a serious hobby is quite different and has many advantages. It provides relaxation for leisure hours, as just looking at one's treasures is always a joy. One does not have to go outside for amusement, since the collection is housed at home. Whatever it consists of, stamps, records, first editions of books, china, glass, antique furniture, pictures, model cars, stuffed animals, toy animals, there is always something to do in connection with it, from finding the right place for the latest addition, to verifying facts in reference books. This hobby educates one not only in the chosen subject, but also in general matters which have some bearing on it. There are also other benefits. One's friends and relatives, in their turn, may feel obliged to present the collector with gifts related to his collection. And these gifts need not be expensive. A young relative of mine, who is studying for a postgraduate degree in music, recently sent me a present of a book on the history of the piano. It was a very welcome gift as I have an interest in music and am also collecting books related to music.

Collectors may get a feeling of satisfaction from the fact that they have found something rare. But there is also the possibility that they may become obsessed with their hobby and spend all their time and money on it. This can lead to problems. For example, a collector who has a passion for antique furniture may find it difficult to resist the temptation to buy a very expensive piece, even if he does not have the money to pay for it. Or a stamp collector may become so obsessed with his stamps that he neglects his family and friends. In general, however, the advantages of collecting as a hobby far outweigh the disadvantages.

##