We often read in novels how a seemingly respectable person or family has some terrible secret which has been concealed from strangers for years. The English language possesses a vivid saying to describe this sort of situation. The terrible secret is called 'a skeleton in the cupboard'. At some dramatic moment in the story, the terrible secret becomes known and a reputation is ruined. The reader's hair stands on end when he reads in the final pages of the novel that the heroine, a dear old lady who had always been so kind to everybody, had, in her youth, poisoned every one of her five husbands.

It is all very well for such things to occur in fiction. To varying degrees, we all have secrets which we do not want even our closest friends to learn, but few of us have skeletons in the cupboard. The only person I know who has a skeleton in the cupboard is George Carlton, and he is very proud of the fact. George studied medicine in his youth. Instead of becoming a doctor, however, he became a successful writer of detective stories. I once spent an uncomfortable weekend which I shall never forget at his house. George showed me to the guestroom which, he said, was very quiet, but I was horrified to find that it looked out onto a cemetery.

'Oh, that's all right,' George said when I told him how I felt. 'I don't mind the view at all.' That was the start of an uncomfortable weekend. The first night, I had scarcely closed my eyes when a strange little man appeared at my bedside. 'I'm sorry to disturb you,' he said, 'but I think there is something wrong with my stomach.' I was in no mood to pass a pleasantry with him, so I simply stared at him until he went away. The next morning I got up early. I had a good breakfast and a pleasant morning stroll. After lunch, I settled down to read in the garden, but the book I was reading could not hold my attention. Every few minutes I raised my head to look at the view. It was not a pleasant view. I decided to go for a walk. I had not gone far when I saw a figure in the distance. I recognized George. He was walking slowly towards me. When he came near, I noticed that he looked very pale. 'I'm sorry to have troubled you last night,' he said. 'I had a bad night myself. I thought I heard something moving in the cupboard. It was probably a mouse, but it sounded like a skeleton. I'm not used to having skeletons in the cupboard, you know.'

##