Modern sculpture rarely surprises us any more. The idea that modern art can only be seen in museums is mistaken. Even people who take no interest in art cannot have failed to notice examples of modern sculpture on display in public places. Strange forms stand in gardens, and outside buildings and shops. We have got quite used to them. Some so - called 'modern' pieces have been on display for nearly eighty years.

In spite of this, some people - including myself - were surprised by a recent exhibition of modern sculpture. The first thing I saw when I entered the art gallery was a notice which said: 'Do not touch the exhibits. Some of them are dangerous!' The objects on display were pieces of moving sculpture. Oddly shaped forms that are suspended from the ceiling and move in response to a gust of wind are quite familiar to everybody. These objects, however, were different. Lined up against the wall, there were long thin wires attached to metal spheres. The spheres had been magnetized and attracted or repelled each other all the time. In the centre of the hall, there were a number of tall structures which contained coloured lights. These lights flickered continuously like traffic lights which have gone mad. Sparks were emitted from small black boxes and red lamps flashed on and off angrily. It was rather like an exhibition of pre - historic electronic equipment. These peculiar forms not only seemed designed to shock people emotionally, but to give them electric shocks as well!

I soon learnt about all the tricks of the trade. Early in the morning, we were told, there is a large pool of water in the centre of the hall which reflects the sculptures. This, apparently, is to give the illusion that the sculptures are floating in mid - air. Next to the pool there is a deep pit with a ladder, so that visitors can descend into it and experience these curious sculptures more fully. There is also an art gallery in the pit, which displays some modern paintings. The paintings look so real that they seem to be floating on the wall. I was so intrigued by these works of art that I decided to buy a catalogue. As I was leaving, I noticed that all the visitors were given a small electric shock as they passed through the turnstile. It was a most unusual exhibition.

##