Customs Officers are quite tolerant these days. They are paid to turn a blind eye to things. Only a few, like Sergeant Custard, earn their pay by being eagle - eyed. One such officer was Tim Smith, who controlled the southern frontier of the city. He had a reputation for being tough on smugglers. Every day he would see a lorry load of goods pass through his area and he was always suspicious. He often had a hunch that something was wrong, even when there was no evidence to support his feeling. One day, he noticed a small van which was parked outside a large store. It was early in the morning and the van was unoccupied. Smith decided to keep an eye on it. As the day progressed, he saw people coming and going from the store, but no one went near the van. By lunchtime, Smith was really beginning to wonder what was going on. Then, just after lunch, a man came out of the store, walked over to the van and opened the back door. Smith immediately rushed over. 'What are you doing?' he demanded. 'I'm just making a delivery,' the man replied. 'Oh, really?' said Smith. 'Then why has this van been sitting here all morning with no one near it?' 'I don't know,' said the man. 'I'm just following my orders.' Smith was not convinced. He decided to search the van. He found nothing suspicious inside. Just as he was about to give up, he noticed a small compartment under the floor. He opened it and found a large quantity of cigarettes. 'What's this?' he asked the man. 'I - I don't know,' stammered the man. 'It's not mine.' 'Well, it's in your van,' said Smith. 'You're under arrest for smuggling.' 'But I'm not guilty,' protested the man. 'I didn't put those cigarettes there.' 'Then who did?' asked Smith. 'I don't know,' said the man. 'I'm just a delivery man.' Smith took the man to the police station. There, he was questioned further. But he still maintained his innocence. In the end, the police had to let him go. They had no evidence to prove that he was guilty. Smith was disappointed. He had been so sure that the man was a smuggler. But he had to admit that he had been wrong. He learned a valuable lesson that day: not to jump to conclusions.

##