The Scandinavian countries are much admired all over the world for their enlightened social policies. Sweden has evolved an excellent system for protecting the individual citizen from high - handed or incompetent public officers. The system has worked so well, that it has been adopted in other countries too.

The Swedes were the first to recognize that public official like civil servants, police officers, health inspectors or tax - collectors can make mistakes or act over - zealously in the belief that they are serving the public. As long ago as 1809, the Swedish Parliament introduced a scheme to safeguard the interest of the individual. A parliamentary committee representing all political parties appoints a person who is suitably qualified to investigate private grievances against the State. The official title of the person is 'Justiteombudsman', but the Swedes commonly refer to him as the 'J.O.' or 'Ombudsman'.

The Ombudsman is not subject to political pressure. He investigates complaints large and small that come to him from all levels of society. As complaints must be made in writing, the Ombudsman receives an average of 1,200 letters a year. He has eight lawyer assistants to help him and he examines every single letter in detail. There is nothing secretive about the Ombudsman's work, for his correspondence is open to public inspection. If a citizen's complaint is justified, the Ombudsman will act on his behalf. The action he takes varies according to the nature of the complaint. He may gently reprimand an official or even suggest to parliament that a law be altered. The following case is a typical example of the Ombudsman's work.

A foreigner living in a Swedish village wrote to the Ombudsman complaining that he had been ill - treated by the police, simply because he was a foreigner. The Ombudsman immediately wrote to the Chief of Police in the district asking him to send a record of the case. There was nothing in the record to show that the foreigner's complaints were justified. The Ombudsman nevertheless decided to carry out an investigation, for he had received similar complaints from other foreigners in the area. He sent a form to the police chief asking him to make a list of all the foreign residents in the district. The police chief did so and sent the list to the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman then sent a letter to each of the foreigners asking them to describe their experiences with the police. In reply, he received a number of letters from the foreigners which told of the same kind of ill - treatment by the police. These letters enabled the Ombudsman to prove that the police had acted unjustly. He reprimanded the police chief in writing and demanded that he send a written apology to the foreigner. The police chief complied and the foreigner was satisfied.

The Ombudsman's job is not an easy one. He often has to work long hours, and he has to be able to stand up to political pressure. But he is highly respected for his integrity and his impartiality.

##